---
layout: page
title:  "Albert v0.9.0 released"
---

Almost four months have passed since the last alpha release. Dozens of hours of contemplation about a sophisticated design and dozens of hours of implementation and even a broken arm later I am happy to announce the release of Albert v0.9.0.

This release comes with a new architecture that allows extensions to register extensions themselves. Based on this changes a new extension *"External extensions"* has been implemented, which can be used to let Albert run external programs and scripts as extensions. Here's an example of an external bash extension that lets you run the scan popup of goldendict as external search engine:

```
#!/bin/bash
case $ALBERT_OP in
  "METADATA")
    STDOUT='{
      "iid":"org.albert.extension.external/v2.0",
      "name":"Goldendict",
      "version":"1.0",
      "author":"Manuel Schneider",
      "dependencies":["goldendict"],
      "trigger":"gd "
    }'
    echo -n "${STDOUT}"
    exit 0
    ;;
  "QUERY")
    QUERYSTRING="${ALBERT_QUERY:3}"
    echo -n '{
      "items":[{
        "id":"goldendict",
        "name":"Use goldendict to lookup '"'${QUERYSTRING}'"'",
        "description":"Opens the scan popup and searches for '"'${QUERYSTRING}'"'.",
        "icon":"goldendict",
        "actions":[{
          "name":"goldendict",
          "command":"goldendict",
          "arguments":["'${QUERYSTRING}'"]
        }]
      }]
    }'
    exit 0
    ;;
esac

```
Just a few words on this to get you started. The core application runs the extension with several environment variables set. The vars used in this script are `$ALBERT_OP` and `$ALBERT_QUERY`. `$ALBERT_OP` tells the extension what to do. When the user enters a query the extension gets started with `$ALBERT_OP` set to `QUERY` and `$ALBERT_QUERY` set to the string that the user entered. This script cuts the trigger prefix and runs goldendict with the rest of the query. Nice! For the details check the relevant section in the documentation.

Further, finally a Firefox bookmark extension made it into the extension inventory. Just as the chrome bookmarks extension the extension basically indexes the bookmarks and makes them accessible via Albert. In the settings you can choose the user profile you want to track and set if the bookmarks should open in the default browser or in Firefox.
